# CanaryBit Inspector

*Audit & Certify your Trusted Execution Environments (TEE)*

--- 

CanaryBit [Inspector](https://docs.confidentialcloud.io/architecture/#inspector) is a Confidential Computing [Attestation]() service with extended functionalites, helping end-users to fully verify the security of their processing environments before any sensitive data analysis.

CanaryBit Inspector validates that the underlying platform has support for and uses Confidential Computing capabilties enabled by the platform's instruction set architecture and firmware.
CanaryBit Inspector performs the validation based on an Attestation Report provided by a software client deployed in the TEE. The client software collects information on the hardware, firmware, and software level to attest its trustworthiness. CanaryBit Inspector monitors the infrastructure security and enforces customer-defined deployment policies by destroying infrastructure components that fail to meet custom needs.

## Architecture 
CanaryBit Inspector service is **built on microservices** that wholetogether provide an holistic view on the underlying insfrastructure and technology stack.

- **Core**: the core logic of CanaryBit's Inspector Remote Attestations (RA) service. It verifies the integrity of a processing environment running on hardware with Confidential Computing capabilities.

- **Dashboard**: it offers multiple services and functionalities to fine-tune the expected processing environments and collect the final results through a single, unified interface.

- **Cache**: it optimises the retrieval of hardware certificates (leaf, intermediate and root) and relevant assets needed for cryptographic verification of the attestation reports generated by Confidential Computing-capable processing units.

- **Policy Generator**: it allows end-users to generate and save custom policies to enforce additional constraints on the deployed environments at both hardware, hypervsisor and hypervisor level.
  
- **Vulnerabilities Search**: it structures and exposes CVE vulnerabilities to the Dashboard microservice, highlighting security vulnerabilities of the target setup. 

- **Database**: a data store used by the microservices; 

### cbclient

CanaryBit Inspector verifies Confidential VMs (cVM) and Containers deployed in Public, Private or On-Prem cloud infrastructures.

The `cbclient` agent is the **client implementation** for the CanaryBit Inspector Attestation service. Written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), it is responsible to collect the attestation data and call the CanaryBit Inspector API to verify the execution environments, either Confidential VMs or containers.
 
## Requirements

- A CanaryBit Account;
- A CanaryBit [Inspector Licence](./inspector.md#licences);
- A target environment with a [supported](../requirements.md) technology stack.

## Attest a Confidential VM

CanaryBit Inspector verifies Confidential VMs (cVM) deployed:

### CanaryBit Tower
    
A Confidential VM is **automatically deployed** by the end-user using [CanaryBit Tower](tower.md) on the target infrastructure provider and attested by CanaryBit Inspector via the CanaryBit `cloud-init` configuration injected at creation time.

### Custom deployment
   
A Confidential VM is deployed by the end-user on the target infrastructure provider and attested by CanaryBit Inspector via the CanaryBit `cloud-init` configuration injected at creation time.

### Manual configuration

A Confidential VM is deployed by the end-user on the target infrastructure provider and attested by CanaryBit Inspector following the steps below:

*From <ins>outside</ins> a Confidential VM:*

  1. Download the [CanaryBit Command-Line Interface (CLI)](../tools/cli.md)

  2. Source your CanaryBit credentials:

    ```
    export CB_USERNAME=***
    export CB_PASSWORD=***
    ```

  3. Download the CanaryBit Inspector agent (`cbclient`)

    ```
    ./cb download cbclient [CBCLIENT_V]/cbclient
    ```
    where `[CBCLIENT_V]` is the required client version, e.g. `0.2.6`

  4. Fetch a user valid token

    ```
    ./cb login inspector
    ```
    The command returns a valid `USER_TOKEN` that will be used by the `cbclient` to authenticate the user towards CanaryBit Inspector.

*From <ins>inside</ins> a Confidential VM:*

  5. Access the Confidential VM and run the `cbclient`:

    ```
    export CBCLIENT_TOKEN=[USER_TOKEN]

    ./cbclient attestation --environments [TARGET_ENV] --inspector-url https://inspector.confidentialcloud.io
    ```
    where `TARGET_ENV` is one or more of:
    - `snp` for AMD SEV-SNP
    - `tdx` for Intel TDX
    - `nvtrust` for NVIDIA H100+ 
    - `vtpm` for vTPM attestation

### Example 

For AMD SEV-SNP attestation:

```
export CBCLIENT_TOKEN='***'
export CBCLIENT_LOG_LEVEL="info"

./cbclient attestation --environments snp --inspector-url https://inspector.confidentialcloud.io
2026-02-22T22:14:55Z info: starting attestation
2026-02-22T22:14:55Z info: generating attestation reports for enclave c2fdb0228f9e3edb1c5999f2401e76929fd79d7ec9e0d08cd914dfb5347aeb28
2026-02-22T22:14:55Z info: requesting nonce from: https://inspector.confidentialcloud.io
2026-02-22T22:14:56Z info: generating attestation reports
2026-02-22T22:14:56Z info: generating attestation report for SEV-SNP
2026-02-22T22:14:56Z info: collecting claims
2026-02-22T22:14:56Z info: preparing composite attestation report
2026-02-22T22:14:56Z info: validating generated reports
2026-02-22T22:14:56Z info: requesting verification from: https://inspector.confidentialcloud.io
2026-02-22T22:14:58Z info: verification report: {"claims":{"attestations":[{"author_key_digest":"000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000","chip_id":"9e2cf0ace115931142cc914fa5cc865fafdce55f949080a397752680ef66ee527ef6e848cb29ed2f4e12304cd69bdc7797b117d4b23274fd6d97090978c1430f","committed":{"build":29,"major":1,"minor":55},"committed_tcb":{"bootloader":4,"microcode":222,"snp":24,"tee":0},"cpuid_fam_id":25,"cpuid_mod_id":1,"cpuid_step":1,"current":{"build":29,"major":1,"minor":55},"current_tcb":{"bootloader":4,"microcode":222,"snp":24,"tee":0},"environment":"SNP","family_id":"00000000000000000000000000000000","guest_svn":0,"host_data":"0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000","id_key_digest":"000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000","image_id":"00000000000000000000000000000000","key_info":"00000000","launch_tcb":{"bootloader":4,"microcode":222,"snp":24,"tee":0},"measurement":"284778cfa7af0baefb066c253036f3cff4cd1d594eea3811ed96cbfc94317c0914510b4da2ba895d33e49165fd580a8e","platform_info":"2700000000000000","policy":"0000030000000000","report_data":"2d305eaf2d6aca3dde7a0d005aafbf19712f274577ee9e66cdcd9d5375d7d29e782f0b7dd3c6257df47cb96a7cc1299a1ae32b0f4a5170da0e1f07ae62577682", ...
2026-02-22T22:14:58Z info: attestation successful
```

## Attest a Container/Pod

In addition to Confidential VMs, CanaryBit Inspector can be used to verify the confidentiality of Nodes where containers are running, no matter if they are managed by an orchestration service (e.g. Azure AKS or AWS EKS) or directly on a container platform.

CanaryBit Inspector verifies the Cluster Node characteristics:

- before a container is executed (always);

- at a defined schedule (if enabled);

- when specific system-wide events occur (if enabled).

This is **extremely beneficial** for dynamic clusters where the size of the Kubernetes cluster (# of Nodes) is adjusted based on the utilization of Pods and Nodes in the cluster. This feature, called `autoscaling` is typically recommended by hyperscalers CaaS solutions.

[CanaryBit Surveyor](./surveyor.md) provides the configuration to enable Container Remote Attestation for several use-cases.

## Download the reports

The verification reports and additional insights are available for download on the CanaryBit [Inspector Dashboard](#)

## Licences

CanaryBit Inspector can be deployed on-prem for internal use or offered as a service.

### Free Trial

Request a 1-month FREE trial via our [contact form](https://www.canarybit.eu/contact)!

### Enterprise

[Choose the licence](https://www.canarybit.eu) that fits your needs and get CanaryBit Inspector up to speed in minutes. 

### Reseller

If you are interested in offering CanaryBit Inspector as a Service (SaaS), [contact us](https://www.canarybit.eu/contacts).